[WIP] Review App blog post (#623)
artsy/artsy.github.io: _posts/2020-08-20-review-apps-post.markdown

Suffice to say, it's _hard to independently confirm that another team's work is
safe to deploy_.

#### Shared Staging Mitigation Strategies

There are a couple of ways Artsy mitigates against the possible pitfalls of a
shared staging environment:

1. Having a culture of quickly deploying code to production

	By building a culture that views frequent deploys positively, there's, on average,
less diff in every deploy, mitigating the risk of unintentionally deploying code
that's not safe to deploy.

2. Communicating deploys

	When deploying a service, Artsy engineers typically send a message to our #dev
Slack channel notifying of their plan to deploy a particular service, cc'ing the
engineers that are involved in other PRs that are part of the deploy. In the example
above, an engineer on Team B would notify relevant stakeholders of Team A, giving
that team the opportunity to flag if their work is not yet safe to deploy.

While these 2 strategies are impactful:

- Semi-unstructured communication is prone to breakdown: the notified engineers
  on Team A might be pairing or in a meeting and Team B deploys anyways.

> - Without true continuous delivery model, it's a challenge to operationalize

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Without a true continuous delivery model, it's a challenge to operationalize
```

  very frequent production deploys. Moreover, the problem compounds as the team
  grows and the velocity of work increases.

If only there was a way to allow Team A and B to work without risking stepping
on each other toes!

We'll discuss how review apps provide this safety, but first another related
problem.

## Problem 2.0: Complex Work Needs Many Eyes

> But before it gets better, it's going to get a bit worse.

Reviewer: 😄

While working on any mature distributed system is a challenge, some work is
particularly challenging or risky. Generally, risk is reduced when many
skilled eyes can review the risky thing.

This class of work might include changes to authorization flows, page

> redesigns or infrastructural upgrades (i.e. a NodeJS upgrade).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
redesigns or infrastructural upgrades (e.g. a NodeJS upgrade).
```

For example, to feel safe deploying [a major version upgrade of Artsy's design
system in Force][styled-systems-upgrade-pr] the most pragmatic way forward was
to deploy that PR to a server where other engineers could collaborate on QA.

*If a single shared staging environment is the only non-production server to
deploy to, the chances that work lands on staging in an unsafe state is high*. While
staging being unsafe isn't _itself_ a bad thing, many bad things can result:

1. [Bad] Blocked Deploys

	If staging is unsafe and this dangerous state is discovered, then top priority
is getting a service back into a safe state. While working to get a service
back to a healthy state, new features can't be delivered.

	In aggregate, this can be a sizeable productivity loss.

2. [Worse] Unsafe Deploys

> 	If staging in unsafe and this dangerous state is not discovered before a production

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	If staging is unsafe and this dangerous state is not discovered before a production
```

deploy (for example, the unsafe code might be from another team, as described above),
then end-users might interact with a service that just isn't working. No good.

3. [Terrible] Fear

	> Fear is the mind-killer.
	[Dune][dune-fear-quote]

	Alright, a bit over the top, but the risk of unsafe or blocked deploys can
implicitly or explicitly result in teams shying away from complex work.

	This avoidable fear might result in increased technical debt or not taking on
certain projects.

	It's generally bad for business and does not lead to a pleasant work environment!

## Problem Recap & Review App Introduction

> In review, when working on complex tasks, particularly on shared services, it is

Reviewer: I find this use of "review" confusing: my immediate thought was that it must relate to "review apps". Maybe you could say "To recap" (the repetition from the subtitle is not too bad IMHO)

Author: ```suggestion
To recap, when working on complex tasks, particularly on shared services, it is
```

work on a shared staging environment, many negative outcomes can result.

Review apps are simply other staging environments that are easy to spin up and
are deployed with the version of the service that you are working on.

By QA-ing on a review app instead of a shared staging environment, teams can
take their time ensuring the safety of their changes, removing the risks
detailed above.

Larger infrastructure upgrades (including upgrades to the
underlying K8s configuration, in addition to app-level changes) can sit on a
server for hours or days, allowing any slow-moving issue to show itself in a
lower risk environment.

Artsy has iterated on its review app tooling to the point where Team A and Team B
can each deploy their changes to isolated servers of our main website, Force,
on a single `git push` to a branch matching a naming convention.

The rest of this post describes Artsy's evolution of its review app tooling
and areas for continued improvement.

## Review App Tooling

### Heroku Days

In the beginning, Artsy deployed most services on Heroku.

[Heroku review apps][heroku-review-app-docs] were used on some teams sparingly.

### Enter Kubernetes and Hokusai

> For many reasons outside of the scope of this post, Artsy began migrating

Reviewer 2: Here or elsewhere might be a good opportunity to drop in a link to other pertinent Artsy blog posts:

- [Kubernetes and Hokusai](https://artsy.github.io/blog/2019/10/18/kubernetes-and-hokusai/)
- [In the 'Whelp!' of the Great Wave](https://artsy.github.io/blog/2018/01/24/kubernetes-and-hokusai/)

services off of Heroku and onto an AWS-backed Kubernetes (K8s) deployment model
starting in [February 2017][introduction-of-hokusai-to-force].

In order to allow application engineers to reasonably interface with K8s-backed
services, Artsy developed a command line interface,

> [`hokusai`][hokusai-gh-homepage], to provide a Heroku CLI-like interface for

Reviewer: omg I only just realised that hokusai is called hokusai because it sounds like heroku!

Author: Hmm, I'm actually not sure if that's the reason why - maybe @izakp can tell us more about the origin story
